Introduction
The epistle to the Ephesians is addressed to Christians who "are in danger of suffering from spiritual malnutrition,
because they are not taking advantage of the enormous store of food and spiritual goods they have at their disposal.
The epistle to the Ephesians has been called the believer's bank,
the checkbook,
the Bible's treasure room.
This wonderful letter tells Christians about the great riches,
the inheritance,
and the fullness they possess in Jesus Christ and his church.
It tells them what they possess and what they must do to appropriate it."
(John MACARTHUR).
This is not material wealth,
but spiritual wealth.
Ephesus was a very important city,
one of the 5 key cities of the Roman Empire.
It was definitely the largest city (apart from Rome) that Paul visited.
It was so rich that it was called the "Bank of Asia".
Traders came from all over to buy and sell their wares.
And tourists visited to admire a temple dedicated to the goddess Artemis,
one of the 7 wonders of the world at the time.
With his letter,
the apostle Paul certainly wanted to show the members of the church in Ephesus,
surrounded by great material wealth,
that the joy and contentment of a Christian is not based on the material.
He wanted to remind them of the true riches we have in Christ,
riches that don't spoil and that no one can steal!
This theme is still relevant today.
Today's world would have us believe that money brings happiness!
But God's Word tells us that this is a lie.
True,
money can buy us things that make our daily lives easier,
but money is powerless against the difficulties,
suffering and great challenges of our life on earth.
The key verse in Ephesians is right at the beginning:
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ.
Ephesians 1, 3
In Jesus we have ALL spiritual blessing!
And in the verses that follow,
Paul gives us more details about these blessings.
In the original Greek version of the Bible,
verses 3 to 14 of the first chapter of Ephesians are a single sentence!
According to Paul,
the list of spiritual riches for those "in Christ" is long:
election and predestination;
adoption;
love;
redemption;
forgiveness;
grace;
wisdom and understanding;
inheritance;
the Holy Spirit;
power;
hope and the church.
In the next few pages,
we will study these biblical truths,
but not simply as doctrines or knowledge for our heads.
Instead,
we'll be looking to discover how they can become real riches for our daily lives with everyday actions.
Election
We are chosen by God,
before the foundation of the world,
in Christ,
to be holy (Ephesians 1, 4).
What is election?
Election is a difficult doctrine to understand.
It's important not to get hung up on why some have been elected and others have not.
God's sovereignty means that we could never understand all his actions.
What's important to remember about this doctrine:
- Salvation begins with God.
He took the initiative to save man.
We are so corrupted by sin that it is impossible for us to take the first step.
- This is an action that God does alone and for himself.
- He does not use the same criteria as our world in his choices (1 Corinthians 1, 26 to 29).
- God's election has a purpose.
He has chosen us to glorify him,
to serve him and to do good works.
Actions to make election a richness in your life:
- Prayer:
Thank God every day that you are one of His chosen ones.
Ask for his help to live worthy of one of God's chosen.
- Bible reading:
Read 1 Corinthians 1, 26 to 31.
These verses teach us that God does not choose as the world chooses.
What are his criteria for choice?
Just because God doesn't choose what's "strong" doesn't mean he doesn't consider us.
Read Isaiah 43, 4 and memorize it.
- Personal reflection:
Do you feel that others - your husband or wife,
your superiors or colleagues,
the members of your church - don't consider you?
Remember that you are one of God's "chosen ones".
You're very important to God.
He considers you.
You are precious in His eyes.
Your importance is not based on your diplomas,
your social position or your material possessions,
but it's simply by grace that God has chosen you.
If you're careful,
you'll notice it in your everyday life!
- Towards others:
Treat your spiritual brothers and sisters,
who are also God's chosen ones,
with respect and love!
Don't despise those who are weak.
Rather,
show them that they are precious in the eyes of God and the church.
Predestination
In his love,
God predestined us to be his adopted children through Jesus Christ (Ephesians 1, 5).
What is predestination?
Predestination is linked to election.
While election is more about the past,
what has happened,
what we already know (we are God's chosen ones),
predestination is about the future,
what God has ordained for our lives.
The word translated "predestine" in the Word of God comes from the Greek word "proorizo",
meaning "to determine beforehand",
"to order",
"to decide in advance".
Like election,
predestination is not easy to understand.
To predestine means to fix one's destiny in advance.
We,
God's elect,
are predestined to become children of God.
Predestination emphasizes that God has chosen us for something.
God has a plan for the life of each of his children.
He has planned everything in advance.
I don't have to worry.
God is in control of my future.
And his plans for my life are very good plans.
Much better than I can imagine.
Missing out on God's plan for my life doesn't mean that God will abandon me or that I'll lose my salvation,
but I may miss out on God's great blessings.
Actions to make predestination a richness in your life:
Before you pray,
write down everything you'd like to do - short and long term - on a piece of paper.
Place everything in God's hands.
Ask him to show you if your plans are also HIS plans.
Read Psalm 139.
What does this Psalm teach you about God's relationship with you and His future plans for you?
- personal reflection:
Examine your heart.
Does all your happiness depend on the success of your plans?
Remember that God may have another plan for your life.
Do you trust God with your future?
Do worries keep you awake at night and unable to work during the day?
Will you be ready to abandon one of your plans if God shows you another way?
- towards others:
If you're not sure what God's will is for you,
ask a brother or sister in Christ for advice.
Also,
seek help for those who have to make important decisions about their future.
Adoption
God has predestined us to be his adopted children through Jesus Christ (Ephesians 1.5).
What is adoption?
In the time of the apostle Paul,
childless couples frequently adopted a son who became their heir.
Even if the adoptive son's biological parents were still alive,
they no longer had any rights over him once the adoption was completed.
Plenary adoption is a legal act.
The child does not simply change the family.
There is a complete break with the old family.
The adopted child changes his or her name and receives a new birth certificate.
He or she is no longer entitled to inheritance from his or her biological family,
but is fully integrated into the lineage of his or her new family.
The old family no longer has any rights over him or her.
In some countries,
biological parents no longer even have the right to see their child.
Paul uses this social custom to teach the following biblical truths:
- We are chosen before we are born,
but we become God's children by adoption the moment we accept God's salvation.
- We are fully children of God.
The break with the past is complete.
Our "old family" no longer has any power over us.
- Adoption was made possible by Christ's death.
It took place the moment we believed and became members of God's family (Romans 8, 15),
but it will be fully realized when we put on our resurrection body (Romans 8, 23).
Actions to make adoption a richness in your life:
Thank God for your new spiritual family.
Speak the names of those who have become true fathers and mothers,
brothers and sisters in the church for you.
Thank God for them.
Read Ephesians 4, 17 to 32.
Make a first list of behaviors from the old family that are no longer allowed in the new family,
the family of God.
Then make a second list of behaviors you must learn as sons and daughters of God's family.
Examine your life to see if you still have any of the behaviors of your old life.
If so,
seek to change them,
with the help of the Holy Spirit.
Ask God to show you who in your church needs a spiritual father or mother or brother or sister.
Draw close to that person and accompany him or her in life as you would a brother or sister in your natural family.
Love
God loves us and has always wanted us to become his sons through Jesus Christ (Ephesians 1, 4 to 5).
What is God's love?
God's love is perfect,
infinite and pure.
It's not just a feeling.
God showed his love for us in a very,
very important act:
he gave his only son to save us (John 3, 16).
- God's love is unconditional:
he doesn't ask me to improve my life before he saves me!
The unconditional nature of God's love never changes.
God continues to love us,
even if we fall into sin,
even if we abandon him.
His love for us remains the same.
It doesn't diminish.
- God's love is selfless,
that is,
it's focused on us.
In giving his son,
he didn't think of himself,
but of us!
And he continues to help us,
to be of service to us.
- God's love is enormous:
God loves us so much that he gave his most precious gift,
his only son.
There's nothing greater he could have done for us.
Actions to make God's love a richness in your life:
Thank God every day for his love for you.
Pay attention to the little signs of God's love during the day.
At the end of the day,
write down the events that show God's love for you in a notebook and thank him.
Read Ephesians 3, 17 to 19.
In this passage,
the apostle Paul uses 2 images to encourage his readers to enjoy God's love:
- take root in this love:
just as a tree spreads its roots in the earth so as not to be blown away by the wind and to find nourishment...
- build on this love:
God's love is a solid foundation,
enabling us to build and move forward in our spiritual life.
Think about how these 2 images can help you live and experience God's love in everyday life.
Share your testimony about God's love in your life with your friends,
your wife or husband or the brothers and sisters in your church.
And show them through your actions that God loves them.
Redemption
In Jesus we have redemption through his blood (Ephesians 1, 7).
What is redemption?
The word "redemption" is part of a set of terms that describe salvation.
Literally,
it means "to untie far off",
"deliverance".
It evokes the notion of redemption,
like a slave,
bound to a master,
and freed by the payment of a sum of money.
Man is a slave to sin and its consequences,
that is death.
Redemption frees him from the power of sin and its legal consequences.
In His work of redemption,
Christ paid the price of redemption for all mankind.
The price is clearly indicated as to its nature:
it is the blood of Christ.
Since we have been redeemed at this price,
we must serve him who paid it (1 Corinthians 7, 22 to 23).
Redemption can be summed up in three basic ideas:
(1) human beings are redeemed from something,
namely the slavery of sin;
(2) they are redeemed by something,
through the payment of a price,
namely the blood of Christ;
(3) they are redeemed for something,
namely to be free.
Once set free,
they are invited to make themselves slaves of the Lord who redeemed them.
Actions to make salvation or redemption a richness in your life:
In your daily prayer,
you can thank God for saving you from sin,
death,
debauchery...
regularly read the accounts of Jesus' death,
for example Luke 23, 33 to 49.
Imagine yourself in the crowd watching the crucifixion.
Remind yourself of Jesus' enormous sacrifice.
You have benefited from the redemption of his son Jesus.
He has freed you from Satan's slavery.
But are you really free?
Examine your life with the help of the Holy Spirit to find out if you're still a "slave" to Satan.
Do you still have bad habits that don't glorify God?
Salvation becomes even more precious when shared with others.
Announce Jesus' salvation at least once a week to someone who doesn't yet know him.
Forgiveness
In Jesus we have the forgiveness of sins (Ephesians 1, 7).
What is forgiveness?
The word "forgive" means to erase everything,
to wipe the slate clean,
to give grace,
to cancel a debt.
Forgiveness is not granted because a guilty person deserves to be forgiven.
Forgiveness is a decision not to hold a grudge against someone,
despite what they have done.
No one deserves to be forgiven.
Forgiveness is an act of love,
mercy and grace.
The Bible tells us that we all need God's forgiveness.
We have all committed sins (1 John 1, 8).
Every sin is essentially an act of rebellion against God and ruins my relationship with him.
And only his forgiveness can restore that relationship.
God's forgiveness cannot be earned through good works.
You can't buy God's forgiveness.
You can only receive it,
by faith,
because of God's grace and mercy.
All you have to do is ask God to forgive you through Jesus,
believing that Jesus died,
to offer you this forgiveness - and God will forgive you.
God's forgiveness is total.
Once granted,
the sin that broke my relationship with God no longer exists before him.
Actions to make forgiveness a richness in your life:
Ask the Holy Spirit to show you if there are any sins in your life.
If you find any,
ask God's forgiveness in Jesus.
Thank God for his forgiveness.
If you're still troubled by an old sin for which you've already asked forgiveness,
ask God to remove it from your mind.
-Bible reading:
Read 1 John chapter 1, 8 to chapter 2, 2.
Try to express in your own words what the apostle John is saying here about the forgiveness of our sins.
Be careful not to abuse God's forgiveness.
Don't say "It's all right,
God will forgive me".
This attitude shows that you're mocking God,
and God hates that.
Visit those who have fallen into sin and are overwhelmed by what has happened.
Encourage them with God's promises,
support them in prayer.
Grace
In him we have redemption through his blood,
the forgiveness of sins,
according to the riches of his grace (Ephesians 1, 4 to 5).
What is God's grace?
Grace means receiving God's salvation completely apart from any merit or act on our part.
God has done everything in Jesus' name for us.
Salvation is a gift,
not a reward.
Salvation is God's work,
a finished work;
we can neither add to it nor take away from it.
We are saved by grace (Ephesians 2, 5 and verses 8 to 9),
AND we live and serve by grace (Ephesians 3, 2 and verses 7 to 8).
God's grace doesn't stop at salvation,
but continues to work in our everyday lives.
God's blessings in our lives are not rewards for our obedience,
good works or active participation in church life.
God blesses us by pure grace.
Obedience to God and good works have an important place in our lives.
BUT if I act while thinking in my heart only of what I can "win" with God,
I'm on the wrong track.
The motivation God is looking for is to please Him.
Actions to make grace a richness in your life:
Make a list of everything God has given you by pure grace,
without you deserving it.
Thank God for everything on the list.
Make a second list of everything you'd like to have or do.
Give the list to God.
Tell him you don't deserve any of these things,
but you're counting on his grace!
Read 1 Corinthians 15, 8 to 10 and 2 Corinthians 12, 8 to 10 and discover how the apostle Paul experienced God's grace in his life.
We're influenced by our world,
which tells us "You deserve this because you did that",
"You're good because you're qualified"...
BUT God tells us "Everything you have I gave you.
You didn't do anything to deserve it.
I didn't give you this job because you're qualified,
but because I love you."
Think about whether you're really living fully on God's grace.
Are you obeying God to please him or to gain something from him?
Share this meaning of God's grace with brothers and sisters who are discouraged because they failed an exam or missed out on something they longed for.
Wisdom and intelligence
Yes,
God has showered us with his blessings.
He has given us all wisdom and understanding.
(Ephesians 1, 8).
What are wisdom and understanding?
The basis of wisdom and intelligence is knowledge,
that is an accumulation of information obtained through education or experience.
There are those who confuse knowledge,
intelligence and wisdom.
They think that knowledge automatically leads to intelligence and even wisdom.
But to be considered intelligent,
it's not enough just to accumulate knowledge;
you also have to understand it and know how to use it.
That's intelligence.
Wisdom goes even further.
To be wise means to have the discernment when and how to apply the knowledge you have acquired,
and to be able to pass on your knowledge and discernment to others.
The Word of God teaches us that God can and will give us intelligence and wisdom BUT with the aim of knowing him,
the living God,
of knowing his plan of salvation and the riches he has reserved for us (see also Ephesians 1, 17 to 20).
Actions to turn wisdom and intelligence into riches in your life:
Thank God for the wisdom and understanding he has already given you.
Ask him to show you how to use the knowledge you've gained in Bible school,
church,
conferences and personal study for his glory.
Ask God to increase your intelligence so that you can better understand his Word and pass on your knowledge to others.
Read 1 Corinthians 1, 18 to 25.
These words from the apostle Paul remind us that God's wisdom is different from that of our world.
Intelligence and wisdom are highly regarded and sought after in our world.
But BEWARE:
it's not the same as with God.
Examine your heart with the help of the Holy Spirit to discover what motivates you in your quest to expand your knowledge.
Remember that God wants you to seek first to know him.
- Toward others:
Reflect on what you've learned in the last few weeks at church or during other teachings.
Write down an important lesson that has made a difference in your life and share it with a family member or friend.
Inheritance
In Christ we have also become heirs...
(Ephesians 1, 11).
What is a Christian inheritance?
It's the property left by a deceased person to those still living,
usually family members.
According to the Word of God,
God has an inheritance for us,
his children.
It is the salvation brought by Jesus Christ that entitles us to this inheritance.
Everything we study in this booklet is part of that inheritance.
Paul calls it an inheritance of "glorious riches" (Ephesians 1, 18).
Being heirs means that we are not yet in full possession of these riches.
But if we live with God,
if Jesus and the Holy Spirit dwell within us,
we can already taste the riches of our heavenly Father.
Just as a child who lives in the bosom of his family can already enjoy his father's possessions to some extent.
And our full acquisition of the heavenly inheritance is promised by the Holy Spirit (see next chapter).
Actions to make the inheritance a richness in your life:
Thank God for the riches he has given you.
List them one by one.
Ask God to help you make better use of them.
Read Ephesians 1 and make a list of all your spiritual blessings.
Are there times when you feel poor?
Are you jealous of others who seem to have more than you?
Remember that God's riches are at your disposal.
Remember that these are riches that no one can steal and that do not spoil.
take time to reflect on which of the riches in Ephesians 1 you were able to use throughout the day.
Start a little notebook and write down God's blessings every day.
- to others:
God wants us to share our spiritual heritage with our family and our brothers and sisters in Christ.
Every morning,
choose one of the riches of your inheritance and find a way to "give" it to someone you meet during the day.
The Holy Spirit
In Christ also you who have believed have received from God the Holy Spirit,
whom he promised and by whom he sealed you to belong to him.
(Ephesians 1, 13)
What does it mean to be sealed with the Holy Spirit?
Among the Jews,
the seal marked the end of a transaction:
when the agreement had been reached,
the deed done and the price paid,
the seal was affixed to the contract to make it definitive.
A seal is an imprint designed to guarantee the authenticity of a document or piece of information,
and to show whether the contents have been altered or damaged.
- A seal establishes the owner's rights and identifies his or her property.
The Holy Spirit thus becomes the divine imprint on us.
We are God's property.
- A seal indicates that it is a genuine work,
a completed and non-negotiable transaction,
bearing the seal of God.
- A seal indicates that it is an authentic work,
bearing the stamp of the competent authority.
The work of salvation is perfect and can no longer be doubted.
- Those who carry a document sealed with a seal are under the protection of the owner of the seal.
God is our protector.
He ensures our security.
The Holy Spirit also acts as the guarantor or pledge of our inheritance.
Whoever pays a pledge,
makes a firm commitment to the other to give it all later.
The Holy Spirit assures us of the totality of our inheritance.
Actions to make the Holy Spirit a richness in your life:
Thank God for the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Ask for the Holy Spirit to fill you completely,
so that you can listen to His voice.
Read the Gospel of John 15, 7 to 15.
What do these verses teach you about the Holy Spirit?
Is the mark of the Holy Spirit really visible in your life?
Can everyone see that you belong to God?
Ask the Holy Spirit to show you what's wrong with you,
and to transform you into the image of the living God.
Get to know your spiritual gifts,
and start exercising them for the good of your brothers and sisters in Christ.
Hope
So that you may know the hope he gave you when he called you (Ephesians 1, 18).
What is Christian hope?
To hope is to firmly believe that a desire will soon be fulfilled.
Christian hope is the expectation of the fulfillment of God's promises.
Hope concerns all God's promises,
but especially those concerning our life after death,
in the presence of God and Jesus,
the return of Jesus,
the new earth and the new heaven.
To hope means that it hasn't yet "happened",
but to believe with certainty that our expectations will be fulfilled.
Such hope can have a profound influence on our lives.
Instead of sinking into fear and anxiety,
we can live in joy and peace.
But we mustn't forget that the basis of our hope must be solid and reliable.
If our hope is founded on other human beings or other forces than the living God,
we are bound to be disappointed.
Only a hope founded on God,
on his Son Jesus and on the Holy Spirit guarantees the fulfillment of the promises awaited.
Actions to make hope a richness in your life:
Thank God for his promises and the hope we have in him.
Put your fears and worries in His hands.
Read the following verses and choose one to memorize:
John 10, 28;
Ephesians 3, 20 to 21;
Revelation 21, 4.
Do you constantly worry?
Do you live in fear that something bad might happen in your life or the lives of your loved ones?
There are many biblical examples of how God keeps his promises:
Noah,
Abraham and Sarah,
Jacob,
Joseph,
Ruth,
Hannah,
Nehemiah...
Study one of these characters,
paying attention to how God accompanied this person,
especially during difficult times.
- To others:
Make a pretty card with an encouraging Bible verse and give it to a friend in need.
You can also send the verse by SMS,
WhatsApp or other means.
The power
You will know the extraordinary power God has shown for us who believe in him (Ephesians 1, 19).
What is the power of God?
A power is a means or a strength that enables you to do great things or to dominate over other people or things.
It is much sought-after in our world.
WARNING:
when the Bible speaks of the power of God,
it's not the same thing.
Firstly,
God's power is greater than anything we can imagine.
He is the creator of our world and has power over the life and death of everything that exists.
Secondly,
he uses his power for good,
not for evil,
as is the case in our world.
God showed his power in the death and resurrection of his son Jesus,
who brought us salvation.
This power is also shown in the ascension and exaltation of Jesus and in his supreme position over the church.
It is this power that is available to us.
Unlimited,
unimaginable power,
but always with the aim of saving,
not destroying!
Actions to make power a richness in your life:
Thank God for his acts in the past which have shown that he is all-powerful and which are still visible today,
for example the creation of the world,
your creation,
the death and resurrection of Jesus...
(Complete the list yourself).
If you find yourself in a situation or facing a problem that seems impossible,
tell yourself that nothing is impossible for the living God,
and entrust the situation into his hands.
Read Isaiah 40, 18 to 31.
What do these verses teach you about God's omnipotence?
Do you really rely on God's power in your everyday life?
Or is it your own efforts and strength that you're looking for?
Are you seeking God's power for YOURSELF,
to glorify yourself,
to seek advancement for yourself and your family alone,
or to help and save others?
Examine your relationships with others to see if you're really using the power God has given you for their good.
The church
He put all things under his feet,
and gave him as supreme head to the church,
which is his body,
the fullness of him who fills all in all.
(Ephesians 1, 22 to 23).
The apostle Paul used several images to explain what the church is.
In our passage,
Ephesians chapter 1,
he speaks of the body of Christ (see also 1 Corinthians 12),
and in the same epistle chapter 3, 19 to 22,
he uses the image of a people,
a family and a house.
What is the church,
the body of Christ?
Christ is the head.
The head is the most important part of the body.
It's in the head that the brain is located,
where all information,
thoughts and decisions are concentrated.
It's where intelligence,
willpower and memory are stored.
All the organs and limbs of our body are under the control of our brain.
If we say that Christ is the head of the Church,
we understand that all its members depend on HIM.
The image of the body also underlines the unity of the church,
the complementarity of its members and the solidarity that must reign between them.
God's family?
When we become Christians,
we also become members of a new family.
With this image,
the apostle Paul drew inspiration from the Jewish family,
where each member had a fixed place with tasks and obligations.
It's the same in the church,
where each member has a role to play according to his or her gifts.
Two other important characteristics of the Jewish family were fruitfulness and solidarity.
Fruitfulness in the church means enlarging it by winning new converts!
Solidarity means helping each other in times of need.
a house,
a building?
This image underlines the importance of the foundation (Jesus Christ) and the fact that the church is "under construction",
not yet finished.
Actions to make the church an asset in your life:
Thank God for his church in your country,
with all its weaknesses and shortcomings.
Read Ephesians 2, 13 to 22 and meditate on these verses.
Compare your local church with these 3 images.
Are the characteristics highlighted by Paul present?
Ask the Holy Spirit to show you what you can do to make your church truly a body and a family!
Examine your heart to see if your brothers and sisters at church have truly become your parents,
as in your natural family.
Table of Contents
1.
2.
The election
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
Power
14.
contes dioula
contes en fulfulde
Le flagrant délit d'adultère 17 Un tiens vaut mieux que deux tu l’auras 18 Bon comme tu l'as été pour moi 19 La coiffure du rival 20 Un drôle d'étranger 21 Le peul 22 L'hôte puni 23 La vieille femme et l’assassin de son enfant 24 La femme du chef 25 Le difficile jugement 26 Le lièvre : garde-bébés 27 Le singe et les lionceaux 28 Les deux amis 29 Quand la maison du voisin brûle 30 Le chasseur et le génie
Le flagrant délit d'adultère 17 Un tiens vaut mieux que deux tu l’auras 18 Bon comme tu l'as été pour moi 19 La coiffure du rival 20 Un drôle d'étranger 21 Le peul 22 L'hôte puni 23 La vieille femme et l’assassin de son enfant
La femme du chef 25 Le difficile jugement 26 Le lièvre : garde-bébés 27 Le singe et les lionceaux 28 Les deux amis 29 Quand la maison du voisin brûle 30 Le chasseur et le génie
La femme du chef
Le difficile jugement 26 Le lièvre : garde-bébés 27 Le singe et les lionceaux 28 Les deux amis 29 Quand la maison du voisin brûle 30 Le chasseur et le génie
contes fulfulde
contes fulfulde (sans audio)
proverbes en fulfulde
Gorko mawɗo e goroo ɓiyum 2 Faatuma e Hamma laamu e Hamma jawdi e Hamma talka 3. Oolal e jokolɓe cuusuɓe 4. Fowru e Noora 5. Moƴƴere ɓii-aadama 6. Njuuraa e luulotooɗe manngal ladde 7. Ngaɗi ngakki 8. Njuuraa e ɓiɓɓe ladde 9. Mayde hunnduko 10. Ngorgu 11. Inna Kummbowel Kodda
Koccaari beero 13. Kuunga ladde e ɓii- nawliyo 14. Girbel 15. Ramto e leengaa 16. Ndawuuwa kaananke 17. Jiija 18. Addaare 19. Semteende moɗam 20. Goppeere, ndontoori e naange 21. Ngel ɓoggi 22. Sammbo kulol 23. Haala girben am mbeelka 24. Soso misinanam
Debbo cennditiiɗo 26. Sammbo cuusu 27. Susu ndaar 28. Soni so Alla waray, kaananke warataa! 29.Gorko mawɗo geddo Alla 30. Ngayngaylaaku 31. Poolel 32. Yaare e fowru 33. Kuse teewu 34. Jaadiraaɓe 35. Ɓoccooɗe Buugalel 36. Ndotti 37. Jamalenngu
contes fulfulde (sans audio). Voici la table de matière :
contes fulfulde (sans audio). Voici la table de matières :
Dey Maana e korɗom 39. Dem-mawɗo e laayoorum 40. Wooɗiyel 41. Talka e dokkal moodibbo 42. Suka gorko e deekum e araawa tummboowa 43. Suka gorko e esiraaɓem 44. Pullo debbo e ɓeengem 45. Moodibbo e dokkal Alla 46. Rafi du'aa'u saara 47. Golle bonɗo 48. Wudere mayɗo 49. Kaananke e suka debbo 50. Kiram kaananke 51. Hokku neema heɓa kokkiteɗaa 52. Hamnde nyiiwa e donto 53. Monnde Ndarja 54. Ga'i e laddeeru 55. Hayndeeji 56. Hakkillo am na ɓuri hakkillo kaananke 57. Keefeero e giɗo Alla 58. Moodibbo e Saahiijom 59. Debbo Kiroowo 60. Jiija e nawliraaɓem 61. Suudu Baaba 62. Pewel 63. Debbo ndoggoowo 64. Caliiɗo suudu baaba 65. Moorgol njilngel 66. Bonde 67. Kanaana 68. Jaadiraaɓe ɗiɗo 69. Bojel, njuuraa e garuwal jinni 70. Tindinooje gorko mawɗo 71. Kunkuuru deel neyel 72. Gariibu bonɗo 73. Wuugaandu e lewla
Dey Maana e korɗom 39. Dem-mawɗo e laayoorum 40. Wooɗiyel 41. Talka e dokkal moodibbo 42. Suka gorko e deekum e araawa tummboowa 43. Suka gorko e esiraaɓem 44. Pullo debbo e ɓeengem 45. Moodibbo e dokkal Alla 46. Rafi du'aa'u saara 47. Golle bonɗo 48. Wudere mayɗo 49. Kaananke e suka debbo
Kiram kaananke 51. Hokku neema heɓa kokkiteɗaa 52. Hamnde nyiiwa e donto 53. Monnde Ndarja 54. Ga'i e laddeeru 55. Hayndeeji 56. Hakkillo am na ɓuri hakkillo kaananke 57. Keefeero e giɗo Alla 58. Moodibbo e Saahiijom 59. Debbo Kiroowo 60. Jiija e nawliraaɓem 61. Suudu Baaba
Pewel 63. Debbo ndoggoowo 64. Caliiɗo suudu baaba 65. Moorgol njilngel 66. Bonde 67. Kanaana 68. Jaadiraaɓe ɗiɗo 69. Bojel, njuuraa e garuwal jinni 70. Tindinooje gorko mawɗo 71. Kunkuuru deel neyel 72. Gariibu bonɗo 73. Wuugaandu e lewla
proverbes en mooré traduits en français par KABORÉ Timothée Pour avoir l'audio, cliquez sur le bouton « play » en haut de page. Lorsque le proverbe 1 a terminé de parler, cliquez sur le proverbe 2 pour l' é couter et lire, puis sur le 3. Si l'on sélectionne un proverbe non pas dans l'ordre chronologique, la synchronisation audio - écriture sera malheureusement décalée.
proverbes en mooré traduits en français par KABORÉ Timothée Pour avoir l'audio, cliquez sur le bouton « play » en haut de page. Lorsque le proverbe 1 a terminé de parler, cliquez sur le proverbe 2 pour l' é couter et lire, puis sur le 3. Si l'on sélectionne un proverbe non pas dans l'ordre chronologique, la synchronisation audio - écriture sera malheureusement décalée. Pour visualiser cette application hors ligne, cliquez ici pour l'ouvrir dans une nouvelle fenêtre. Ensuite, mettez-la en signet ou ajoutez-la à votre écran d'accueil. Envoyez-nous vos commentaires ou questions
Le crapaud et l'hyène 2 L'écureuil, le crapaud et le caméléon 3 L'enfant Kayelle 4 Le lièvre et l'hyène 5 À propos d'un homme 6 À propos d'un chasseur 7 Le chien et la chèvre 8 La guêpe et la mouche 9 Le chat et le chien 10 Le lièvre, l'hyene et le boeuf 11 La traversée difficile d'une rivière 12 Le royaume des oiseaux
Le crapaud et l'hyène 2 L'écureuil, le crapaud et le caméléon 3 L'enfant Kayelle 4 Le lièvre et l'hyène 5 À propos d'un homme 6 À propos d'un chasseur
Le chien et la chèvre 8 La guêpe et la mouche 9 Le chat et le chien 10 Le lièvre, l'hyene et le boeuf 11 La traversée difficile d'une rivière 12 Le royaume des oiseaux
Le vieux Toro 2 Le voyageur 3 Le richard et l’honnête homme 4 L'amitié du génie 5 Le boucher anti-mouches 6 Le lièvre, l'hyène et l‘éléphant 7 Le prix de |’orgueil 8 La fête de poules 9 Le lion, le lièvre et l’hyène
Le vieux Toro 2 Le voyageur 3 Le richard et l’honnête homme 4 L'amitié du génie 5 Le boucher anti-mouches 6 Le lièvre, l'hyène et l‘éléphant 7 Le prix de |’orgueil 8 La fête de poules 9 Le lion, le lièvre et l’hyène 10 Le lionceau de |’hyène 11 Le cadavre au bâton 12 Patigdba et le bois sacré 13 Jalousie, quand tu nous tiens 14 Tindba, l’homme frivole 15 Le chasseur et la bague du génie 16 Naamdé, le fils mal aimé 17 Le lièvre, l’engoulevent et les œufs 18 Le lièvre et la tête de Ia pintade
Le lionceau de |’hyène 11 Le cadavre au bâton 12 Patigdba et le bois sacré 13 Jalousie, quand tu nous tiens 14 Tindba, l’homme frivole 15 Le chasseur et la bague du génie 16 Naamdé, le fils mal aimé 17 Le lièvre, l’engoulevent et les œufs 18 Le lièvre et la tête de Ia pintade
proverbes en mooré traduits en français par KABORÉ Timothée Pour avoir l'audio, cliquez sur le bouton «play» en haut de page. Lorsque le proverbe 1 a terminé de parler, cliquez sur le proverbe 2 pour l'écouter et lire, puis sur le 3. Si l'on sélectionne un proverbe non pas dans l'ordre chronologique, la synchronisation audio - écriture sera malheureusement décalée.
proverbes en mooré traduits en français par KABORÉ Timothée Pour avoir l'audio, cliquez sur le bouton «play» en haut de page. Lorsque le proverbe 1 a terminé de parler, cliquez sur le proverbe 2 pour l'écouter et lire, puis sur le 3. Si l'on sélectionne un proverbe non pas dans l'ordre chronologique, la synchronisation audio - écriture sera malheureusement décalée. Pour visualiser cette application hors ligne, cliquez ici pour l'ouvrir dans une nouvelle fenêtre. Ensuite, mettez-la en signet ou ajoutez-la à votre écran d'accueil. Envoyez-nous vos commentaires ou questions
La chauve-souris et l’hirondelle 2 L’hyène et le lièvre 3 Le roi et sa fille 4 Le père et ses trois enfants 5 Le prix de la méchanceté 6 Le vieil homme 7 L’orphelin 8 Les colporteurs d’information
La chauve-souris et l’hirondelle 2 L’hyène et le lièvre 3 Le roi et sa fille 4 Le père et ses trois enfants 5 Le prix de la méchanceté 6 Le vieil homme 7 L’orphelin 8 Les colporteurs d’information 9 L'enfant du voisin 10 L'aveugle voleur 11 Le test de paternité 12 Le fou et le faux fou 13 Le travail rien que Le travail 14 C'est notre totem 15 L’homme qui surveillait toujours sa femme
L'enfant du voisin 10 L'aveugle voleur 11 Le test de paternité 12 Le fou et le faux fou 13 Le travail rien que Le travail 14 C'est notre totem 15 L’homme qui surveillait toujours sa femme
L'enfant du voisin
L'aveugle voleur 11 Le test de paternité 12 Le fou et le faux fou 13 Le travail rien que Le travail 14 C'est notre totem 15 L’homme qui surveillait toujours sa femme
37 contes vol. 1 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.burkina.fulfulde.vol1.proverbes&hl=fr
36 contes vol. 2 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.taali.men36.burkina&hl=fr
15 contes avec audio vol. 3 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.taali.men.contes.fulfulde.bf&hl=fr
1495 proverbes, «Banndi» https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.banndi.fufulde.burkina&hl=fr
Dictionnaire fulfulde – français - English https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.sim.bf.fulfulde.dictionary&hl=fr
contes fulfulde vol 1 avec audio https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.contes1.fulfulde.audio&hl=fr
contes fulfulde vol 2 avec audio https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.contes2.fulfulde.audio&hl=fr
contes fulfulde vol 3 avec audio https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.contes3.fulfulde.audio&hl=fr
contes fulfulde vol 4 avec audio https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.contes4.fulfulde.audio&hl=fr
contes fulfulde vol 5 avec audio https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.contes5.fulfulde.audio&hl=fr
proverbes fulfulde, audio vol 1 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.burkina.fulfulde.vol1.proverbes&hl=fr
proverbes fulfulde, audio vol 2 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.burkina.fulfulde.vol2.proverbes&hl=fr
proverbes fulfulde, audio vol 3 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.burkina.fulfulde.vol3.proverbes&hl=fr
proverbes fulfulde, audio vol 4 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.burkina.fulfulde.vol4.proverbes&hl=fr
proverbes fulfulde, audio vol 5 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.burkina.fulfulde.vol5.proverbes&hl=fr
58 contes fulfulde avec audio sur App Store pour iPhone https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fulfulde-contes/id6444526250
1495 proverbes fulfulde avec audio sur App Store, pour iPhone https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fulfulde-proverbes/id6444899208
Fulfulde dictionary sur App Store , pour iPhone https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fulfulde-dictionary/id1595857807
